hello everyone, and welcome to my channel.

What you see on your screen is a piece of glass, mounted on a wall in my room. As you can see that the wall color behind the glass is quite light, my intention is therefore to use this glass for writing and may be even make use of it to make educational videos for youtube. We will see how it goes. 

I was actually looking for a magnetic whiteboard, but upon searching I found them to be on the expensive side. From what I know is, that a magnetic whiteboard is primarily made of some sort of woodsubstrate used as infill base material with a thin iron sheet pasted on one side which helps sticking magnets or duster etc. and on the edges aluminium channels keep everything in place. Using glass as a medium for writing is something that I first saw about six years ago, when I was working with an organization. I had completely forgotten about it to be honest and it came back to me as an idea again when I was out in the market looking for a whiteboard and I thought of using glass against a white background as a writing board. Even white glassboards are available in the market and I found them to be as expensive as magnetic whiteboards and in some cases they were even more expensive than magnetic whiteboards of similar size. So my choice was guided by pure economics..

The piece of glass that you see here is a transparent piece, so it is quite unlike the white glassboards that you may find in the market, in fact some whiteglassboards sold in the market even have magnetic capability and this doesn't have that either. In size, it's just shy of 5 feet length and is slightly over 2 and a half feet in width. It measures 12mm thick, is toughened and weighs a whopping 45kgs. I will be making another video to let you know how I went about installing it, my mistakes and the hardware that I used. I purchased this glass from a person who had recently constructed house and a few extra unused pieces were left with him. Since it was not cut to be used as a glassboard, you can see that it has four holes around the corners which eat away some of the writing surface area. Also, at 12mm thickness it's almost double the thickness of what most sellers sell as glassboard. In this particular video, I want to discuss a few drawbacks and benefits of using glass vis a vis white board. 

Starting with the drawbacks.

1. Glass gets heavy as the size and thickness increases. You can easily calculate aproximate weight using online calculators. It was no easy task to handle 45 kgs and I did it on my own. So if you don't have help of machines or people, and are considering a piece that weighs anything more than 10kgs, I would suggest you go and purchase it from the glass whiteboard seller since it's likely to come with installation service. IF you are doing it on your own, keep in mind the size and if you would be able to handle it. On the otherhand a normal whiteboard would weigh much less than 10kgs even if you go with the largest size say of 5 feet x 4 feet etc. God forbid if you drop glass it will shatter or even worse, you may end up hurting yourself. While in case of whiteboard chances of hapenning that are nil.

2. Mounting a heavy piece of glass may require special mounts, these are inexpensive, however, you will need to take proper care during installation because Glass may prove to be less forgiving if you deviate from hole location. So keeping it horizontal and properly aligned can be somewhat of a challenge. I will discuss the challenges that I faced in another video. In the case of whiteboard however, it can be hung with just two or three dry wall screws.

3. The way in which transparent glass is mounted against the wall, I mean how much distance it has between it self and the wall affects the visibility of text. It's better if you can get a glass with painted white background. I will not suggest transparent glass for writing if you are considering making videos etc. since text shadow appears on the wall under certain light conditions and can be problematic for shooting videos. Also, the thinner the glass, the better it will be in terms of text visibility.

4. The problem of reflection is another issue that you are likely to face and it makes a glassboard a less than ideal choice if you are planning on using it in educational videos. To prevent reflection, you will need to experiment with lot of camera angle or you may need to mount the glass at an angle tiltling somwhat at the top towards the front. This may work, or may not work. I am not sure.

5. If you choose to go with a transparent glass instead of a white glass, you may require markers with high flowrate. Here you can see comparison of markers from Hauser and Flair. The Flair appears to be comparatively darker in comparison to the Hauser.

What are the plus points?

1. In my personal opinion, a glass board appears more pleasing to look at and is aesthetically more pleasing. It sort of works like an art installation and doubles up as a writing board. I can't say that about a whiteboard.

2. Glass is completely non-porous and therefore writing experience in comparison to some of the inexpensive whiteboards is definitely better.

What's the remedy for low visibility?

1. To remedy the low visibility, you can paste white chartpapers at the back of the glass, or can spray paint it using white enamel can spray.

Economics / Glass installation

Purchasing a new piece of toughened glass and making a board out of it would be expensive. I would therefore encourage you to look for it at your nearest scrapyard. India has seen lot of construction boom and as a result you may find that glass scrap is quite abundant. The toughened glass scrap specifically is quite abundant because it is comparatively difficult to work with and is cut using waterjet machines. So, small pieces generally don't make way to machines again for modification and are sold as is. The shape however may be somewhat odd and it may have undesirable holes as is the case with mine. Generally you can use the holes to install some wooden cuts and make them work as place for keeping markers, duster etc. 

Glass price 1000 Rs (approx 95 / sqft)
Fasteners 20 Rs
Mild steel Angle 300 Rs
Stainless steel studs and dry wall screws 140
Drill bit 70 Rs

Some other tools that I already had (Punch, Drill machine, Angle Grinder, Hammer, Screw driver and Spanner set)

I hope you liked the video. Please subscribe to my channel and let me know in comments section if you need more information.  